holodecks/the_bridge/the_bridge.md, before:

## The Bridge -- Simulation Map

### Startup Configuration

- **User Profile:** about_the_user.md
- **Cast File:** holodeck_cast.md
- **Setting File:** holodeck_setting.md
- **Script File:** holodeck_script.md / see [[holodeck_script.md]] → "Captain on the Bridge" scene
- **Starting Location:** bridge
- **Starting Scenario:** captain on the bridge / see [[holodeck_script.md]] "Captain on the Bridge"
- **Starting Mode:** normal
- **Initial Cast Override:** bridge crew
- **Roleplay Mode:** RP Lite   # Default startup mode; waits for user to direct simulation
- **User Persona:** John Kominetz III as Captain
- **Startup Hooks:**
  - trigger_log: "Daily change of watch initiated"
  - environmental_status: "systems nominal"

### Location Defaults / Bridge

The Bridge is defined in holodeck_setting.md

- Mode: Normal
- Crew: bridge crew / see holodeck_cast.md for member selection logic
- Lighting: Wrath-of-Khan ambiance with modern LCARS panels
- Status: All stations manned, systems nominal

### Purpose and Authority

This file serves as the **Simulation Map** for the Holodeck system — the single manifest automation reads to assemble and start a session.

- Points to all core simulation files:
  - [[holodeck_cast.md]] — roster, department membership/flavor, automation batches
  - [[holodeck_setting.md]] — location/world details, motifs
  - [[holodeck_script.md]] — narrative arcs, acts, and scenes
  - [[about_the_user.md]] — user biography and RP persona
- Declares the startup scenario, location, mode, cast subset, RP mode, and persona.
- **No rosters, bios, or protocols** are duplicated here — always refer to the source files above.
- All simulation/session/mode logic is governed by [[holodeck_protocols.md]].

### Core Files

| File                | Purpose                                                        |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| [[holodeck_cast.md]]           | roster, department membership/flavor, automation batches       |
| [[holodeck_setting.md]]        | Locations, world-building, motifs, hooks                       |
| [[holodeck_script.md]]         | Acts, scenes, and standalone scenarios                         |
| [[about_the_user.md]]          | User biography/context for persona and RP mode                 |

### Location Defaults — The Bridge

The **Bridge** is defined as a primary location in the [[holodeck_setting.md]] file.  
When the simulation starts here, the following defaults may be applied unless overridden:

- **Default Mode:** Normal
- **Default Crew Set:** Bridge Crew (see [[holodeck_cast.md]] for members)
- **Lighting/Atmosphere:** Operational readiness, warm Wrath‑of‑Khan lighting with modern LCARS panels
- **Bridge Ready Status:** All stations manned; systems nominal

WARNING! **(These defaults can be overridden in the Startup Parameters above or in scenario/episode files.)**

### Overrides (Optional)

If specific to this run, declare overrides here — they only apply during the active simulation and do not modify any underlying files.

Example (YAML syntax):

    overrides:
      starting_location: engineering
      cast_override: engineering staff
      rp_mode: normal

Commit message:

Refactors holodeck protocols and cast structure
Streamlines and clarifies simulation protocols, authority, and address rules for holodeck sessions. Unifies persona and department definitions, replacing individual role listing with explicit roles mapping. Updates YAML configuration for cast and group membership to improve consistency and automation. Removes redundant sandbox address/protocol text and manifest file. Enhances flexibility and maintainability for future scenario and mode expansion.

Related to #6 - sandbox and bridge operational.

holodecks/the_bridge/the_bridge.md, after:

## The Bridge -- Simulation Map

### Startup Configuration

- **User Profile:** [[about_the_user.md]]
- **Cast File:** [[holodeck_cast.md]]
- **Setting File:** [[holodeck_setting.md]]
- **Script File:** [[holodeck_script.md]]
- **Starting Location:** [[holodeck_setting.md#ready room]]
- **Starting Mode:** talk
- **User Persona:** John Kominetz III as Captain

### Location Defaults / Bridge

The Bridge is defined in holodeck_setting.md

- Mode: Normal
- Crew: bridge crew / see holodeck_cast.md for member selection logic
- Lighting: Wrath-of-Khan ambiance with modern LCARS panels
- Status: All stations manned, systems nominal

### Purpose and Authority

This file serves as the **Simulation Map** for the Holodeck system — the single manifest automation reads to assemble and start a session.

- Points to all core simulation files:
  - [[holodeck_cast.md]] — roster, department membership/flavor, automation batches
  - [[holodeck_setting.md]] — location/world details, motifs
  - [[holodeck_script.md]] — narrative arcs, acts, and scenes
  - [[about_the_user.md]] — user biography and RP persona
- Declares the startup scenario, location, mode, cast subset, RP mode, and persona.
- **No rosters, bios, or protocols** are duplicated here — always refer to the source files above.
- All simulation/session/mode logic is governed by [[holodeck_protocols.md]].

### Core Files

| File                | Purpose                                                        |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| [[holodeck_cast.md]]           | roster, department membership/flavor, automation batches       |
| [[holodeck_setting.md]]        | Locations, world-building, motifs, hooks                       |
| [[holodeck_script.md]]         | Acts, scenes, and standalone scenarios                         |
| [[about_the_user.md]]          | User biography/context for persona and RP mode                 |

### Location Defaults — The Bridge

The **Bridge** is defined as a primary location in the [[holodeck_setting.md]] file.  
When the simulation starts here, the following defaults may be applied unless overridden:

- **Default Mode:** Normal
- **Default Crew Set:** Bridge Crew (see [[holodeck_cast.md]] for members)
- **Lighting/Atmosphere:** Operational readiness, warm Wrath‑of‑Khan lighting with modern LCARS panels
- **Bridge Ready Status:** All stations manned; systems nominal

WARNING! **(These defaults can be overridden in the Startup Parameters above or in scenario/episode files.)**

### Overrides (Optional)

If specific to this run, declare overrides here — they only apply during the active simulation and do not modify any underlying files.

Example (YAML syntax):

    overrides:
      starting_location: engineering
      cast_override: engineering staff
      rp_mode: normal

### Simulation Settings

```yaml
# ===============================
# Startup Configuration
# ===============================
startup:
  mode: RP Lite
  location: Ready Room 
  scenario: 
  time_of_day: local
flavor: |
  Ready Room -- U.S.S. Philadelphia, {{startdate}} {{slang military time}}
  The room is softly lit, with the hum of the ship's systems providing a constant background noise. Through the viewport, stars streak by as the ship travels at warp speed. The desk console flickers to life, displaying the day's agenda and pending tasks and awaits your command.
  user_persona: John Kominetz III as Captain
  hooks:
    - trigger_log: "Daily change of watch initiated"
    - environmental_status: "systems nominal"
```
